# Spatial Sablefish Model Development

Using Alaskan sablefish (Anoplopoma fimbria) as a case study, we demonstrate how good practices for developing spatial stock assessments can be implemented. Our framework emphasizes utilization of high-resolution data analysis to inform key model structure decisions, and the co-development of single region and spatially explicit assessments to improve insights into ecological and population dynamics. Results indicated that the current single region model for Alaskan sablefish is likely adequate for management advice, given the panmictic nature of the population. However, spatial models also identified regional differences in sablefish recruitment and age-structure. Moreover, by utilizing a fully integrated modeling approach, we developed new ecological insights regarding the movement dynamics of this highly mobile species, which suggested evidence of age-based movement patterns, and that movement across regions is likely lower than when analyzing tagging data in isolation. We recommend the single region model be used for management advice, but semi-regular updates of the spatial model could provide additional insight into the distribution of recruitment and the potential for regional depletion of older sablefish. The sablefish application provides one of the first end-to-end demonstrations of implementing spatial stock assessment good practices, underscoring critical decision points and associated analyses to inform them when developing a spatial stock assessment. 

Email lhcheng@alaska.edu to obtain data files. Run_5Area_1960_Comparisons.R contains all code necessary to run 5-area model variants. 
